Book Series Review: 'The Aurelian Cycle' by Rosaria Munda (Fireborne, Flamefall, and Furysong)

Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/YAlit/comments/xly0q9/book_series_review_the_aurelian_cycle_by_rosaria/

---

I haven't seen too many people talking about this trilogy, and that needs to change. It's been years since I've connected with a YA fantasy like this, and I am blown away. It's honestly one of the best YA fantasy series I've ever read. To me, it felt like a cross between Red Rising and Game of Thrones/House of the Dragon.

What's this series about? The island nation of Callipolis has been ruled by dragonlords (lords who bond with and ride dragons) for centuries, but discontent of the populous leads to a rebellion. The dragonlords are overthrown and a new regime takes over who dismantles the feudal system and institutes a new system of government with the goal of making things more fair and equal. The series follows Lee, the last surviving son of a dragonlord who has hidden his true identity for 10 years, and Annie, a former serf who befriends Lee at the orphanage where they grow up. Both Lee and Annie test their way into the Guardian program, a military unit comprised of dragonriders who defend Callipolis. The first book is told from the POV of Annie and Lee, but the second book adds a new location and POV character (Griff!! I love you), and the third book adds yet another POV (Delo!). The addition of the new location and characters after book 1 really elevates the series and raises the stakes, making everything more complex and interesting.

This is essentially a book about revolution and change, power and politics. It asks the question "What happens when the new regime begins making the same mistakes as the one it fought to overthrow?" I found myself agreeing with the proposed actions of one character, and then the very next chapter I would change my mind and agree with a different character. Everything was so murky and gray, it was impossible to say for sure who was right and who was wrong at times, which made everything that much more intriguing. It even showed how you can still have bad people on the "good" side of a conflict, and vice versa.

Every single character in this series is so fleshed out and well rounded. Our heroes not only stand up and fight for what they believe in, but they also make mistakes and bad decisions while doing so. They aren't perfect, and that makes them feel real, honest, and nuanced. The relationships between the characters are sometimes messy and complicated, but you can really feel their connections, even when they disagree with each other. The worldbuilding was done well, and the fact that it takes place on two small island nations meant that it covered just enough geographic space to keep the story well contained without things getting overly complicated. We also get just enough of a backstory to understand the political climate without getting bogged down with the past. And really, it's a series about riding dragons, so the world is automatically cool just for that.

Munda's writing style is neat and well ordered, with deliberate phrasing to pack just the right amount of punch, and I don't think she wasted any words. She excels at making you feel things whether you want to or not, so buckle up. The final book had me literally sobbing at my desk at work as I listened, and I was an absolute mess for the last third of it. These characters are essentially at war, and Munda does not hold back on showing you the brutality they endure and the trauma they suffer. This may be YA, but I would say the only thing that makes it YA is the age of the characters. If the characters were aged up by 10 years, it could have easily been sold as an adult fantasy.

Overall, I enjoyed my time spent in this world. I felt like it had good pacing throughout the books, and nothing felt rushed or dragged out. I can't recommend this highly enough. If you enjoy fantasy, please do yourself a favor and read it. You won't regret it.

Series Rating: 4.5/5 stars.

(Also, it's queer! There is a bisexual main character introduced in book 2 who gets a POV, and a gay male character who gets a POV in book 3. Their story is lovely.)

---

COMMENTS:

SaxintheStacks:
Yessss I love this series! I will never squander an opportunity to sing its praises. The level of nuance in the characters in this series is so far above what I'm used to reading in YA fantasy. I read Furysong right after it came out and I already want to reread the whole thing

_lostinpages_:
Ik it's really late...but I'm planning to start this series. Can you tell me if it's a hea?

thebutterflytattoo:
I would say kind of, yes. I am rereading it, and the end of the series was 50/50 for me. I cannot explain without saying too much, but I would like to think it's the type of hea we could ever expect from a book of this caliber, at least in their world anyway, lol

arrivedercifiero_:
I finished the first book. Can you tell me what happens between Annie/Lee/Crissa? I just want to know if Lee and Annie end up together or not. Does Lee continue with Crissa for a lot longer or do they stop soon?

AltheaFarseer:
Hey I'm just a bit ahead of you (assuming you haven't started book 2 yet) and Crissa breaks things off with Lee right at the beginning of book 2.

TheWalkingDeadBeat:
I've read the first 2 and can't wait to finish it as soon as it's available at my library! It's such a severely underrated series!

Eliteketchup847:
wait I read this but can't remember the bi character

Buckaroo2 (OP):
Griff

Eliteketchup847:
wasn't he gay??

Buckaroo2 (OP):
Delo is gay. Maybe Griff decided he was actually gay by the end (there were a couple of lines that implied he might still be figuring out exactly what his sexuality was), but when he was introduced he was bi and mourning Julia.

Buckaroo2 (OP):
In response to your comment I had to remove: Yes, he was coerced, but we don't find that out until later. When he is introduced, there isn't an indication of that. He seems to have loved Julia, and even if the relationship was forced, it doesn't mean he isn't actually bi. To the reader, he appears to be bi, but he does start to question his sexuality. That's why I said he might have decided he was gay by the end of the series. Saying he is a bi character is a simplification meant to show the diversity in the series. I can't explain his entire sexuality arc without spoilers.

Tough_Weird6542:
I just finished this series and it's unlike any other book I've read!! The world building, the characters - why they do what they do - the nuances !!! The dragons.. oh my god the dragons. I feel I'm bonded to them myself. This book made my fall in love, cry, scream and gasp. On my hunt for something to keep this adrenaline going.. it's gonna be so hard to find the next book

Money-Savvy-Wannabe:
Fourth wing and iron flame brought me to this series and honestly, i liked it better

thebutterflytattoo:
Yes! I think this series definitely laid the foundation for FW, but it's soooo underrated!!

Comfortable_Ear1403:
I read FW & Iron Flame first, then other books and then the Aurelian Cycle books. In brushing up on FW/Iron Flame plot before reading Onyx Storm, I can't help but feel FW comes maybe too close to Rosaria Munda's works. It feels more copy cat upon reread. What do you think?

tallnerfthis:
i say this all the time - fourth wing feels like a badly rewritten "adult" version of this series.

Money-Savvy-Wannabe:
Delo and Griff are my favorite characters. Especially Delo's sooo confusing!

No-Compote9488:
Tbh it's trash

jvnv283:
Can anybody give me a spice level of this book or the whole series? I want to know the level bevor reading it. Thank you <3

bergatron11:
Very little spice. There is kissing and implied sexual relationships

[deleted]:
Honestly, this book series is below average. When you attempt to put it in the like of Game of Thrones or red rising, you show that you have a low standard for writing. This series was almost unfinished at times. Thankfully, the third book was the best of the three.

its_always_october:
This series was wonderfully written. I would live to read more, a spin off perhaps,, so many options. I truly felt sad after finishing furys9ng and having no more to read

Different-9999:
Yess, I felt for lee sur pallor

bookwitch_1331:
I'm actually about to start this series in a couple of days. I got the first book for Christmas. Can anyone tell me it it's spicy or not, please? Is it more action/adventure with romance on the side or no?

black_rabbit_6:
A simple google will have told you it's not spicy, there's just a lot of longing, some hugging, some kissing.

DirectorStunning1489:
Does anyone know if the series is finished i hate starting series that are not finished since I end up going back and rereading then ( why I've only read fourth wing and not the rest ) and I got the firborn serie to get into and start in others after. But I can't figure out if it's finished or not and I'd have to start and read all three and be left on yet another unfinished serie.

Siarell_Lacrima:
It's a finished trilogy.

WorkingCurrency2733:
God this was su h a good series and now I'm getting withdrawal from it especially since no one is talking about it!!!

Scipios_Rider16:
Does Duck survive? I just finished book two and I need to know if Duck will be okay.
